Improve fundamentals workout in react (#1502)
enkidevs/curriculum: javascript/react/fundamentals/the-react-element.md

---

# The React element

---
## Content

An element in **React** is the most basic building block for describing your application's UI.

It is important to know that elements are **immutable** and their children or attributes can't be updated after rendering. This implies that elements describe the UI at a specific point in time - like a *snapshot*.

> In **React** you'll work mainly with a more flexible concept - components. However, these are *made of* elements therefore it's helpful to understand the *fundamentals* of how they work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In **React** you'll work mainly with a more flexible concept, components, which are *wrappers* around elements that provide additional capabilities.
```

To define an element you can simply:
```jsx

> const element = <p>Enki was here</p>;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// create an object representing
// a React element
const element = React.createElement(
  'p',
  null,
  'Enki was here'
)

// or using JSX
const element = <p>Enki was here</p>;
```

```

Elements are plain objects and can be created cheaply and rendered into the **DOM**.

The way elements are rendered is with help from the **React DOM**[1], under the `root`[2] node.

Suppose in your **HTML** you have the `div`:
```html
<div id="root"></div>
```

> Now, using `ReactDOM.render()` you can display in your webpage the element declared above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, on your webpage, you can display the `<p>` element (declared above) as a child of the `"root"` div, using `ReactDOM.render()` :
```
